README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>


<br />
<div align="center">

  <h1 align="center">Sports Match Organizer App</h1>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ol>
</details>
<br>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

This is a web application that helps users organize their matches. It is built with NodeJS, Express and Mongoose. Integration tests are written using Jest.

The application allows users to: 
- register 
- log in / log out
- update and delete their account
- make a reservation for a match in the future
- view their match history along with the corresponding results
- unregistered users can filter reservations for upcoming matches by date, day of the week and hour

A user with admin access can create, view, update and delete fields, reservations and results. Teams and matches are created automatically once there are enough players registered for a match and the weather conditions allow for the match to be played at the planned time. Both team and match can be updated and deleted by admin user.

Cron job is used to perform checks on reservations every day at 9AM. 
- First check is to see if there are enough players registered for the match on that day. The number of players that need to be registered is defined in the instances of the field model. The number must be an even number so that the players could be arranged into two teams. 
- If there aren't enough players, the match is canceled. 
- If there are enough players then the next action is an API call to an external API (OpenWeather API) to check if the weather conditions are suitable for a match to be played. 
- The following is considered a reason for cancelation: rain, humidity above 89%, temperature below 4 celsius, snow, strong wind above 80 km/h, high temperatures over 33°C.
- If the match is canceled, the registered users will be notified via email. 
- After checking the conditions if the match is scheduled, the registered users will be notified via email.

Once the match has been finished, a user with admin access is expected to input the result of the match. 
- Another cron job is set to check if the results have been added for the matches that are finished. 
- If there are no results, admin users will be notified via email.

<br>



### Built With


* [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)
* [Express](https://expressjs.com/)
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
* [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
* [Mongoose](https://www.mongoosejs.com/)

<br>

### Additional packages used in project as dependencies:
 - supertest (for endpoint integration tests) 
 - node-cron (for scheduling tasks) 
 - nodemailer (for sending email notifications)
 - axios (for makin calls to an external API)
 - morgan (for logging HTTP requests)
 - joi (for request validation)
 - eslint (to make the code more consistent and to detect problematic code patterns that could lead to bugs)
 - swagger-autogen (for generating description from the API code) 
 - swagger-ui-express (for adding Swagger UI to the API)

 <br>

### Prerequisites
What software you need to use the application, and how to install it:

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command in your terminal:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/agilathon/sport_matches_organizer.git
   ```


2. Run the docker-compose.yaml to set up the database (MongoDB instance):
   ```sh
   docker compose up
   ```


3. Install the dependencies (NPM packages):
   ```sh
   npm run install
   ```


4. Create .env files in server folder so you can start the APP in different environments. Example below:

```sh
    NODE_ENV=environment
    DB_USERNAME=username
    DB_PASSWORD=password
    JWT_SECRET=secretkey
    JWT_EXPIRATION=expirationtime
    PORT=port
    API_KEY=weatherapikey
    API_URL='https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather'
    MAILER_HOST=localhost
    MAILER_PORT=1025    
    MAIL_SENDER='example@notification.com'
    BASE_URL="http://localhost:3000"
    CRON_RESULT='* * * * *'
    CRON_WEATHER='0 0 0 0 0'
```

**Note:**
.env.development should be defined in order to run the scripts for seeding the database and starting up the server in the steps below.
Apart from the development .env, .env.test environment should also be defined in order to run the unit and integration tests.



5. Seed the database (navigate to server folder):

   ```sh
   npm run seed
   ```


6. Create .env file in client folder. Example below:

```sh
    REACT_APP_SERVER_URL=http://localhost:8000
    EXTEND_ESLINT = true
```


7. Run server and client  (root folder)
  ```sh
  npm run app
  ```

**Note:**
A Postman collection is included in the project files and can be used to test the functionality of the application. 

### Running Tests

Run unit and integration tests

```sh
npm run jest
```

### Swagger UI Visualization

To visualize and interact with the API’s resources without having any of the implementation logic in place use one of the following methods:

- Go to [Swagger UI online editor](https://editor.swagger.io/) and import the swagger-output.json file

- Get the server up and running on port 8000 and go to the [Swagger UI site](http://localhost:8000/api-docs/#/) in your browser

**Note:**
After running the "npm run dev" command the server will be running on port 8000 by default. This port is also defined to be the host in the swagger.js file. 



<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

add aditional functionalities for pass reset and link to add result via email (#115)

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>


<br />
<div align="center">

  <h1 align="center">Sports Match Organizer App</h1>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ol>
</details>
<br>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

This is a web application that helps users organize their matches. It is built with NodeJS, Express and Mongoose. Integration tests are written using Jest.

The application allows users to: 
- register 
- log in / log out
- update and delete their account
- reset password from user profile, reset password from recovery link in email if password forgotten
- make a reservation for a match in the future
- view their match history along with the corresponding results
- unregistered users can filter reservations for upcoming matches by date, day of the week and hour

A user with admin access can create, view, update and delete fields, reservations and results. Teams and matches are created automatically once there are enough players registered for a match and the weather conditions allow for the match to be played at the planned time. Both team and match can be updated and deleted by admin user.

Cron job is used to perform checks on reservations every day at 9AM. 
- First check is to see if there are enough players registered for the match on that day. The number of players that need to be registered is defined in the instances of the field model. The number must be an even number so that the players could be arranged into two teams. 
- If there aren't enough players, the match is canceled. 
- If there are enough players then the next action is an API call to an external API (OpenWeather API) to check if the weather conditions are suitable for a match to be played. 
- The following is considered a reason for cancelation: rain, humidity above 89%, temperature below 4 celsius, snow, strong wind above 80 km/h, high temperatures over 33°C.
- If the match is canceled, the registered users will be notified via email. 
- After checking the conditions if the match is scheduled, the registered users will be notified via email.

Once the match has been finished, a user with admin access is expected to input the result of the match. 
- Another cron job is set to check if the results have been added for the matches that are finished. 
- If there are no results, admin users will be notified via email with a link to add result.

<br>



### Built With


* [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)
* [Express](https://expressjs.com/)
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
* [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
* [Mongoose](https://www.mongoosejs.com/)

<br>

### Additional packages used in project as dependencies:
 - supertest (for endpoint integration tests) 
 - node-cron (for scheduling tasks) 
 - nodemailer (for sending email notifications)
 - axios (for makin calls to an external API)
 - morgan (for logging HTTP requests)
 - joi (for request validation)
 - eslint (to make the code more consistent and to detect problematic code patterns that could lead to bugs)
 - swagger-autogen (for generating description from the API code) 
 - swagger-ui-express (for adding Swagger UI to the API)

 <br>

### Prerequisites
What software you need to use the application, and how to install it:

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command in your terminal:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/agilathon/sport_matches_organizer.git
   ```


2. Run the docker-compose.yaml to set up the database (MongoDB instance):
   ```sh
   docker compose up
   ```


3. Install the dependencies (NPM packages):
   ```sh
   npm run install
   ```


4. Create .env files in server folder so you can start the APP in different environments. Example below:

```sh
    NODE_ENV=environment
    DB_USERNAME=username
    DB_PASSWORD=password
    JWT_SECRET=secretkey
    JWT_EXPIRATION=expirationtime
    PORT=port
    API_KEY=weatherapikey
    API_URL='https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather'
    MAILER_HOST=localhost
    MAILER_PORT=1025    
    MAIL_SENDER='example@notification.com'
    BASE_URL="http://localhost:3000"
    CRON_RESULT='* * * * *'
    CRON_WEATHER='0 0 0 0 0'
```

**Note:**
.env.development should be defined in order to run the scripts for seeding the database and starting up the server in the steps below.
Apart from the development .env, .env.test environment should also be defined in order to run the unit and integration tests.



5. Seed the database (navigate to server folder):

   ```sh
   npm run seed
   ```


6. Create .env file in client folder. Example below:

```sh
    REACT_APP_SERVER_URL=http://localhost:8000
    EXTEND_ESLINT = true
```


7. Run server and client  (root folder)
  ```sh
  npm run app
  ```

**Note:**
A Postman collection is included in the project files and can be used to test the functionality of the application. 

### Running Tests

Run unit and integration tests

```sh
npm run jest
```

### Swagger UI Visualization

To visualize and interact with the API’s resources without having any of the implementation logic in place use one of the following methods:

- Go to [Swagger UI online editor](https://editor.swagger.io/) and import the swagger-output.json file

- Get the server up and running on port 8000 and go to the [Swagger UI site](http://localhost:8000/api-docs/#/) in your browser

**Note:**
After running the "npm run dev" command the server will be running on port 8000 by default. This port is also defined to be the host in the swagger.js file. 



<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>
